docs(filter):initial FilterField ValueTemplate docs and Filter Refres… (#1971)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/filter/fields/templates.md

---
title: Templates

> page_title: FilterField - Templates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: Filter Field Templates
```

> description: Templates for the FilterField

Reviewer: The meta description should be 150 characters or more.

```suggestion
description: Learn how to configure and use Templates for the Filter component FilterField. The ValueTemplate allows users to input a filtering value in custom UI.
```

slug: filter-filterfield-templates
tags: telerik,blazor,filter,filterfields,templates
published: True
position: 10
---

> # FilterField Templates

Reviewer: For consistency with https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/components/filter/fields/operators

```suggestion
# Filter Field Templates
```

> You can customize the FilterFiled appearance and behavior through its templates.

Reviewer: Use backticks for inline code and API members.

```suggestion
You can customize the `FilterFiled` appearance and behavior through its templates.
```

> The FilterField can use templates for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `FilterField` provides the following templates:
```

* [Value Template](#value-template)

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Value Template

> The `ValueTemplate` allows you to customize the default value input field of a single Filter Field. You can replace the value input field with a different component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ValueTemplate` allows you to customize the default value editor of a single Filter Field. You can replace the default editor component or change the component settings.
```

The `context` of the`ValueTemplate` is of type FilterFieldValueTemplateContext. You can get and set the `FilterDescriptor`, associated with the FilterField, through the `context` of the`ValueTemplate`.

To use the Filter Field value template, add a `<ValueTemplate>` tag inside the [FilterField]({%slug filter-fields%}).

> ````CSHMTL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>caption Using FilterField ValueTemplate

````CSHMTL
```
